Liu Xiyang trained to be the best in the world.
For Liu Xiyang, life as a sports hero began in 2004.
First, he was invited to competitions around the world.
Then, he was chosen for the Chinese team at the Athens Olympic Games and won a gold medal.
Liu Xiyang was not a successful sportsman at first.
He was born in Shanghai on the 13th of July 1983 and started training when he was very young.
In grade four, he went to the sports school of Poutua District of Shanghai.
Liu was encouraged at first to train for the high jump.
In 1998, Liu Xiyang's ability in herdling was noticed by Sun Hai Ping, who later became his coach.
In 2001, a special program was set up to help young sportsmen and sports women.
Liu Xiyang was among them. His races were recorded and he was compared with the world's best sports stars.
Sun Hai Ping used the information to change his training methods for Liu Xiyang.
In May 2001, Liu Xiyang won his first international 110-meter hurdles race in Japan.
In 2004, he won the first Olympic gold medal for China in the 110-meter hurdles race and at the same time broke the Olympic Games record.
It was also the first time an Olympic gold medal for herdling was hung round the neck of a sportsperson from an Asian country.
Liu Xiyang trained very hard. In fact, he trained so hard that he hurt his foot.
From 2008 on, he suffered a lot from his foot problem, but he did not give up.
Though he missed some competitions, he still returned to first place in the world 110-meter hurdles race in 2012.
It is a pity that his foot problem stopped him from completing the 2012 London Olympic Games, but he is still a symbol of courage and success, and we continue to take great pride in him.